**Data leakage during a pentest is very bad!**
Encrypting data is a must, especially sensitive data.

## File Encryption on Windows
[Invoke-AESEncryption.ps1](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/DRTools/4.0.2.3/Content/Functions%5CInvoke-AESEncryption.ps1)

We can use any previously shown file transfer methods to get this file onto a target host. After the script has been transferred, it only needs to be imported as a module, as shown below.

#### Import Module Invoke-AESEncryption.ps1
```
PS C:\htb> Import-Module .\Invoke-AESEncryption.ps1
```

After the script is imported, it can encrypt strings or files, as shown in the following examples. This command creates an encrypted file with the same name as the encrypted file but with the extension "`.aes`."

#### File Encryption Example
```
PS C:\htb> Invoke-AESEncryption -Mode Encrypt -Key "p4ssw0rd" -Path .\scan-results.txt
```

Using very `strong` and `unique` passwords for encryption for every company where a penetration test is performed is essential. This is to prevent sensitive files and information from being decrypted using one single password that may have been leaked and cracked by a third party.

## File Encryption on Linux
[OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/) is frequently included in Linux distributions, with sysadmins using it to generate security certificates, among other tasks. OpenSSL can be used to send files "nc style" to encrypt files.

To encrypt a file using `openssl` we can select different ciphers, see [OpenSSL man page](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man1/openssl-enc.html). Let's use `-aes256` as an example. We can also override the default iterations counts with the option `-iter 100000` and add the option `-pbkdf2` to use the Password-Based Key Derivation Function 2 algorithm. When we hit enter, we'll need to provide a password.

#### Encrypting /etc/passwd with openssl

```
oib3u@htb[/htb]$ openssl enc -aes256 -iter 100000 -pbkdf2 -in /etc/passwd -out passwd.enc

enter aes-256-cbc encryption password:                                                         
Verifying - enter aes-256-cbc encryption password:
````

Remember to use a strong and unique password to avoid brute-force cracking attacks should an unauthorized party obtain the file. To decrypt the file, we can use the following command:

#### Decrypt passwd.enc with openssl

```
oib3u@htb[/htb]$ openssl enc -d -aes256 -iter 100000 -pbkdf2 -in passwd.enc -out passwd                    

enter aes-256-cbc decryption password:
```

We can use any of the previous methods to transfer this file, but it's recommended to use a secure transport method such as HTTPS, SFTP, or SSH. As always, practice the examples in this section against target hosts in this or other modules and reproduce what you can (such as the `openssl` examples using the Pwnbox. The following section will cover different ways to transfer files over HTTP and HTTPS.