The `File Transfer Protocol` (`FTP`) is one of the oldest protocols on the Internet. The FTP runs within the application layer of the TCP/IP protocol stack. Thus, it is on the same layer as `HTTP` or `POP`. These protocols also work with the support of browsers or email clients to perform their services. There are also special FTP programs for the File Transfer Protocol.

A distinction is made between `active` and `passive` FTP. In the active variant, the client establishes the connection as described via TCP port 21 and thus informs the server via which client-side port the server can transmit its responses. However, if a firewall protects the client, the server cannot reply because all external connections are blocked. For this purpose, the `passive mode` has been developed. Here, the server announces a port through which the client can establish the data channel. Since the client initiates the connection in this method, the firewall does not block the transfer.

Usually, we need credentials to use FTP on a server. We also need to know that FTP is a `clear-text` protocol that can sometimes be sniffed if conditions on the network are right. However, there is also the possibility that a server offers `anonymous FTP`. The server operator then allows any user to upload or download files via FTP without using a password. Since there are security risks associated with such a public FTP server, the options for users are usually limited.

This is reflected, for example, in the fact that TFTP, unlike FTP, does not require the user's authentication. It does not support protected login via passwords and sets limits on access based solely on the read and write permissions of a file in the operating system. Practically, this leads to TFTP operating exclusively in directories and with files that have been shared with all users and can be read and written globally. Because of the lack of security, TFTP, unlike FTP, may only be used in local and protected networks.


Let us take a look at a few commands of `TFTP`:

|**Commands**|**Description**|
|---|---|
|`connect`|Sets the remote host, and optionally the port, for file transfers.|
|`get`|Transfers a file or set of files from the remote host to the local host.|
|`put`|Transfers a file or set of files from the local host onto the remote host.|
|`quit`|Exits tftp.|
|`status`|Shows the current status of tftp, including the current transfer mode (ascii or binary), connection status, time-out value, and so on.|
|`verbose`|Turns verbose mode, which displays additional information during file transfer, on or off.|

Unlike the FTP client, `TFTP` does not have directory listing functionality.

## Default Configuration

One of the most used FTP servers on Linux-based distributions is [vsFTPd](https://security.appspot.com/vsftpd.html). The default configuration of vsFTPd can be found in `/etc/vsftpd.conf`, and some settings are already predefined by default. It is highly recommended to install the vsFTPd server on a VM and have a closer look at this configuration.

#### Install vsFTPd

        shellsession
`gladdos1337@htb[/htb]$ sudo apt install vsftpd`

The vsFTPd server is only one of a few FTP servers available to us. There are many different alternatives to it, which also bring, among other things, many more functions and configuration options with them. We will use the vsFTPd server because it is an excellent way to show the configuration possibilities of an FTP server in a simple and easy-to-understand way without going into the details of the man pages. If we look at the configuration file of vsFTPd, we will see many options and settings that are either commented or commented out. However, the configuration file does not contain all possible settings that can be made. The existing and missing ones can be found on the [man page](http://vsftpd.beasts.org/vsftpd_conf.html).

#### vsFTPd Config File

        shellsession
`gladdos1337@htb[/htb]$ cat /etc/vsftpd.conf | grep -v "#"`

|**Setting**|**Description**|
|---|---|
|`listen=NO`|Run from inetd or as a standalone daemon?|
|`listen_ipv6=YES`|Listen on IPv6 ?|
|`anonymous_enable=NO`|Enable Anonymous access?|
|`local_enable=YES`|Allow local users to login?|
|`dirmessage_enable=YES`|Display active directory messages when users go into certain directories?|
|`use_localtime=YES`|Use local time?|
|`xferlog_enable=YES`|Activate logging of uploads/downloads?|
|`connect_from_port_20=YES`|Connect from port 20?|
|`secure_chroot_dir=/var/run/vsftpd/empty`|Name of an empty directory|
|`pam_service_name=vsftpd`|This string is the name of the PAM service vsftpd will use.|
|`rsa_cert_file=/etc/ssl/certs/ssl-cert-snakeoil.pem`|The last three options specify the location of the RSA certificate to use for SSL encrypted connections.|
|`rsa_private_key_file=/etc/ssl/private/ssl-cert-snakeoil.key`||
|`ssl_enable=NO`||

In addition, there is a file called `/etc/ftpusers` that we also need to pay attention to, as this file is used to deny certain users access to the FTP service. In the following example, the users `guest`, `john`, and `kevin` are not permitted to log in to the FTP service, even if they exist on the Linux system.

#### FTPUSERS

        shellsession
`gladdos1337@htb[/htb]$ cat /etc/ftpusers guest john kevin`

---

## Dangerous Settings

There are many different security-related settings we can make on each FTP server. These can have various purposes, such as testing connections through the firewalls, testing routes, and authentication mechanisms. One of these authentication mechanisms is the `anonymous` user. This is often used to allow everyone on the internal network to share files and data without accessing each other's computers. With vsFTPd, the [optional settings](http://vsftpd.beasts.org/vsftpd_conf.html) that can be added to the configuration file for the anonymous login look like this:

|**Setting**|**Description**|
|---|---|
|`anonymous_enable=YES`|Allowing anonymous login?|
|`anon_upload_enable=YES`|Allowing anonymous to upload files?|
|`anon_mkdir_write_enable=YES`|Allowing anonymous to create new directories?|
|`no_anon_password=YES`|Do not ask anonymous for password?|
|`anon_root=/home/username/ftp`|Directory for anonymous.|
|`write_enable=YES`|Allow the usage of FTP commands: STOR, DELE, RNFR, RNTO, MKD, RMD, APPE, and SITE?|

With the standard FTP client (`ftp`), we can access the FTP server accordingly and log in with the anonymous user if the settings shown above have been used. The use of the anonymous account can occur in internal environments and infrastructures where the participants are all known. Access to this type of service can be set temporarily or with the setting to accelerate the exchange of files.

As soon as we connect to the vsFTPd server, the `response code 220` is displayed with the banner of the FTP server. Often this banner contains the description of the `service` and even the `version` of it. It also tells us what type of system the FTP server is. One of the most common configurations of FTP servers is to allow `anonymous` access, which does not require legitimate credentials but provides access to some files. Even if we cannot download them, sometimes just listing the contents is enough to generate further ideas and note down information that will help us in another approach.

#### Anonymous Login

        shellsession
`gladdos1337@htb[/htb]$ ftp 10.129.14.136 Connected to 10.129.14.136. 220 "Welcome to the HTB Academy vsFTP service." Name (10.129.14.136:cry0l1t3): anonymous 230 Login successful. Remote system type is UNIX. Using binary mode to transfer files. ftp> ls 200 PORT command successful. Consider using PASV. 150 Here comes the directory listing. -rw-rw-r--    1 1002     1002      8138592 Sep 14 16:54 Calender.pptx drwxrwxr-x    2 1002     1002         4096 Sep 14 16:50 Clients drwxrwxr-x    2 1002     1002         4096 Sep 14 16:50 Documents drwxrwxr-x    2 1002     1002         4096 Sep 14 16:50 Employees -rw-rw-r--    1 1002     1002           41 Sep 14 16:45 Important Notes.txt 226 Directory send OK.`

> However, to get the first overview of the server's settings, we can use the following command:
> status

#### Recursive Listing

`ftp> ls -R`

#### Download All Available Files

`gladdos1337@htb[/htb]$ wget -m --no-passive ftp://anonymous:anonymous@10.129.14.136`

```
gladdos1337@htb[/htb]$ tree .

.
└── 10.129.14.136
    ├── Calendar.pptx
    ├── Clients
    │   └── Inlanefreight
    │       ├── appointments.xlsx
    │       ├── contract.docx
    │       ├── meetings.txt
    │       └── proposal.pptx
    ├── Documents
    │   ├── appointments-template.xlsx
    │   ├── contract-template.docx
    │   └── contract-template.pdf
    ├── Employees
    └── Important Notes.txt

5 directories, 9 files
```

 **The attitude that internal network components cannot be accessed from the outside means that the hardening of internal systems is often neglected and leads to misconfigurations.**


#### Upload a File

        shellsession
`gladdos1337@htb[/htb]$ touch testupload.txt`

With the `PUT` command, we can upload files in the current folder to the FTP server.

        shellsession
`ftp> put testupload.txt`

## Footprinting the Service

Footprinting using various network scanners is also a handy and widespread approach. These tools make it easier for us to identify different services, even if they are not accessible on standard ports. One of the most widely used tools for this purpose is Nmap. Nmap also brings the [Nmap Scripting Engine](https://nmap.org/book/nse.html) (`NSE`), a set of many different scripts written for specific services. More information on the capabilities of Nmap and NSE can be found in the [Network Enumeration with Nmap](https://academy.hackthebox.com/course/preview/network-enumeration-with-nmap) module. We can update this database of NSE scripts with the command shown.

#### Nmap FTP Scripts

        shellsession
`gladdos1337@htb[/htb]$ sudo nmap --script-updatedb Starting Nmap 7.80 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2021-09-19 13:49 CEST NSE: Updating rule database. NSE: Script Database updated successfully. Nmap done: 0 IP addresses (0 hosts up) scanned in 0.28 seconds`

```
$ find / -type f -name ftp* 2>/dev/null | grep scripts
```

```
gladdos1337@htb[/htb]$ sudo nmap -sV -p21 -sC -A 10.129.14.136
```

#### Nmap Script Trace

        shellsession
`gladdos1337@htb[/htb]$ sudo nmap -sV -p21 -sC -A 10.129.14.136 --script-trace`

This lets us see what commands Nmap sends, what ports are used, and what responses we receive from the scanned server.


```
NSE: TCP 10.10.14.4:54226 > 10.129.14.136:21 | CONNECT
NSE: TCP 10.10.14.4:54228 > 10.129.14.136:21 | CONNECT
NSE: TCP 10.10.14.4:54230 > 10.129.14.136:21 | CONNECT
NSE: TCP 10.10.14.4:54232 > 10.129.14.136:21 | CONNECT
NSOCK INFO [11.4660s] nsock_trace_handler_callback(): Callback: READ SUCCESS for EID 50 [10.129.14.136:21] (41 bytes): 220 Welcome to HTB-Academy FTP service...
NSOCK INFO [11.4660s] nsock_trace_handler_callback(): Callback: READ SUCCESS for EID 58 [10.129.14.136:21] (41 bytes): 220 Welcome to HTB-Academy FTP service...
NSE: TCP 10.10.14.4:54228 < 10.129.14.136:21 | 220 Welcome to HTB-Academy FTP service.
```

The scan history shows that four different parallel scans are running against the service, with various timeouts. For the NSE scripts, we see that our local machine uses other output ports (`54226`, `54228`, `54230`, `54232`) and first initiates the connection with the `CONNECT` command. From the first response from the server, we can see that we are receiving the banner from the server to our second NSE script (`54228`) from the target FTP server. If necessary, we can, of course, use other applications such as `netcat` or `telnet` to interact with the FTP server.

#### Service Interaction

        shellsession
`gladdos1337@htb[/htb]$ nc -nv 10.129.14.136 21`

        shellsession
`gladdos1337@htb[/htb]$ telnet 10.129.14.136 21`


```
gladdos1337@htb[/htb]$ openssl s_client -connect 10.129.14.136:21 -starttls ftp
```
^^ It looks slightly different if the FTP server runs with TLS/SSL encryption. Because then we need a client that can handle TLS/SSL. For this, we can use the client `openssl` and communicate with the FTP server. The good thing about using `openssl` is that we can see the SSL certificate, which can also be helpful.

This is because the SSL certificate allows us to recognize the `hostname`, for example, and in most cases also an `email address` for the organization or company. In addition, if the company has several locations worldwide, certificates can also be created for specific locations, which can also be identified using the SSL certificate.


{assigments FTP}

### Which version of the FTP server is running on the target system? Submit the entire banner as the answer.

