`Server Message Block` (`SMB`) is a client-server protocol that regulates access to files and entire directories and other network resources such as printers, routers, or interfaces released for the network. Information exchange between different system processes can also be handled based on the SMB protocol. [SMB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows_protocols/ms-smb/f210069c-7086-4dc2-885e-861d837df688) first became available to a broader public, for example, as part of the OS/2 network operating system LAN Manager and LAN Server. Since then, the main application area of the protocol has been the Windows operating system series in particular, whose network services support SMB in a downward-compatible manner - which means that devices with newer editions can easily communicate with devices that have an older Microsoft operating system installed. With the free software project Samba, there is also a solution that enables the use of SMB in Linux and Unix distributions and thus cross-platform communication via SMB.

An SMB server can provide arbitrary parts of its local file system as shares. Therefore the hierarchy visible to a client is partially independent of the structure on the server. Access rights are defined by `Access Control Lists` (`ACL`). They can be controlled in a fine-grained manner based on attributes such as `execute`, `read`, and `full access` for individual users or user groups. The ACLs are defined based on the shares and therefore do not correspond to the rights assigned locally on the server.

## Samba

As mentioned earlier, there is an alternative implementation of the SMB server called Samba, which is developed for Unix-based operating systems. Samba implements the Common Internet File System (`CIFS`) network protocol. [CIFS](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows_protocols/ms-cifs/934c2faa-54af-4526-ac74-6a24d126724e) is a dialect of SMB, meaning it is a specific implementation of the SMB protocol originally created by Microsoft. This allows Samba to communicate effectively with newer Windows systems. Therefore, it is often referred to as SMB/CIFS.

However, `CIFS` is considered a specific version of the SMB protocol, primarily aligning with `SMB version 1`. When SMB commands are transmitted over Samba to an older NetBIOS service, connections typically occur over TCP ports `137`, `138`, and `139`. In contrast, CIFS operates over TCP port `445` exclusively. There are several versions of SMB, including newer versions like `SMB 2` and `SMB 3`, which offer improvements and are preferred in modern infrastructures, while older versions like `SMB 1` (`CIFS`) are considered outdated but may still be used in specific environments.

|**SMB Version**|**Supported**|**Features**|
|---|---|---|
|CIFS|Windows NT 4.0|Communication via NetBIOS interface|
|SMB 1.0|Windows 2000|Direct connection via TCP|
|SMB 2.0|Windows Vista, Windows Server 2008|Performance upgrades, improved message signing, caching feature|
|SMB 2.1|Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2|Locking mechanisms|
|SMB 3.0|Windows 8, Windows Server 2012|Multichannel connections, end-to-end encryption, remote storage access|
|SMB 3.0.2|Windows 8.1, Windows Server 2012 R2||
|SMB 3.1.1|Windows 10, Windows Server 2016|Integrity checking, AES-128 encryption|

With version 3, the Samba server gained the ability to be a full member of an Active Directory domain. With version 4, Samba even provides an Active Directory domain controller. It contains several so-called daemons for this purpose - which are Unix background programs. The SMB server daemon (`smbd`) belonging to Samba provides the first two functionalities, while the NetBIOS message block daemon (`nmbd`) implements the last two functionalities. The SMB service controls these two background programs.

We know that Samba is suitable for both Linux and Windows systems. In a network, each host participates in the same `workgroup`. A workgroup is a group name that identifies an arbitrary collection of computers and their resources on an SMB network. There can be multiple workgroups on the network at any given time. IBM developed an `application programming interface` (`API`) for networking computers called the `Network Basic Input/Output System` (`NetBIOS`). The NetBIOS API provided a blueprint for an application to connect and share data with other computers. In a NetBIOS environment, when a machine goes online, it needs a name, which is done through the so-called `name registration` procedure. Either each host reserves its hostname on the network, or the [NetBIOS Name Server](https://networkencyclopedia.com/netbios-name-server-nbns/) (`NBNS`) is used for this purpose. It also has been enhanced to [Windows Internet Name Service](https://networkencyclopedia.com/windows-internet-name-service-wins/) (`WINS`).

## Default Configuration

As we can imagine, Samba offers a wide range of [settings](https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/smb.conf.5.html) that we can configure. Again, we define the settings via a text file where we can get an overview of some of the settings. These settings look like the following when filtered out:

```
cat /etc/samba/smb.conf | grep -v "#\|\;" 

[global]
   workgroup = DEV.INFREIGHT.HTB
   server string = DEVSMB
   log file = /var/log/samba/log.%m
   max log size = 1000
   logging = file
   panic action = /usr/share/samba/panic-action %d

   server role = standalone server
   obey pam restrictions = yes
   unix password sync = yes

   passwd program = /usr/bin/passwd %u
   passwd chat = *Enter\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *Retype\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *password\supdated\ssuccessfully* .

   pam password change = yes
   map to guest = bad user
   usershare allow guests = yes

[printers]
   comment = All Printers
   browseable = no
   path = /var/spool/samba
   printable = yes
   guest ok = no
   read only = yes
   create mask = 0700

[print$]
   comment = Printer Drivers
   path = /var/lib/samba/printers
   browseable = yes
   read only = yes
   guest ok = no
```

|**Setting**|**Description**|
|---|---|
|`[sharename]`|The name of the network share.|
|`workgroup = WORKGROUP/DOMAIN`|Workgroup that will appear when clients query.|
|`path = /path/here/`|The directory to which user is to be given access.|
|`server string = STRING`|The string that will show up when a connection is initiated.|
|`unix password sync = yes`|Synchronize the UNIX password with the SMB password?|
|`usershare allow guests = yes`|Allow non-authenticated users to access defined share?|
|`map to guest = bad user`|What to do when a user login request doesn't match a valid UNIX user?|
|`browseable = yes`|Should this share be shown in the list of available shares?|
|`guest ok = yes`|Allow connecting to the service without using a password?|
|`read only = yes`|Allow users to read files only?|
|`create mask = 0700`|What permissions need to be set for newly created files?|
## Dangerous Settings

Some of the above settings already bring some sensitive options. However, suppose we question the settings listed below and ask ourselves what the employees could gain from them, as well as attackers. In that case, we will see what advantages and disadvantages the settings bring with them. Let us take the setting `browseable = yes` as an example. If we as administrators adopt this setting, the company's employees will have the comfort of being able to look at the individual folders with the contents. Many folders are eventually used for better organization and structure. If the employee can browse through the shares, the attacker will also be able to do so after successful access.

|**Setting**|**Description**|
|---|---|
|`browseable = yes`|Allow listing available shares in the current share?|
|`read only = no`|Forbid the creation and modification of files?|
|`writable = yes`|Allow users to create and modify files?|
|`guest ok = yes`|Allow connecting to the service without using a password?|
|`enable privileges = yes`|Honor privileges assigned to specific SID?|
|`create mask = 0777`|What permissions must be assigned to the newly created files?|
|`directory mask = 0777`|What permissions must be assigned to the newly created directories?|
|`logon script = script.sh`|What script needs to be executed on the user's login?|
|`magic script = script.sh`|Which script should be executed when the script gets closed?|
|`magic output = script.out`|Where the output of the magic script needs to be stored?|
Let us create a share called `[notes]` and a few others and see how the settings affect our enumeration process. We will use all of the above settings and apply them to this share. For example, this setting is often applied, if only for testing purposes. If it is then an internal subnet of a small team in a large department, this setting is often retained or forgotten to be reset. This leads to the fact that we can browse through all the shares and, with high probability, even download and inspect them.

#### Example Share

`...SNIP... 
[notes]
	comment = CheckIT    
	path = /mnt/notes/     
	browseable = yes    
	read only = no   
	writable = yes    
	guest ok = yes     
	enable privileges = yes    
	create mask = 0777    
	directory mask = 0777`

It is highly recommended to look at the man pages for Samba and configure it ourselves and experiment with the settings. We will then discover potential aspects that will be interesting for us as a penetration tester. In addition, the more familiar we become with the Samba server and SMB, the easier it will be to find our way around the environment and use it for our purposes. Once we have adjusted `/etc/samba/smb.conf` to our needs, we have to restart the service on the server.
#### Restart Samba

`root@samba:~# sudo systemctl restart smbd`

Now we can display a list (`-L`) of the server's shares with the `smbclient` command from our host. We use the so-called `null session` (`-N`), which is `anonymous` access without the input of existing users or valid passwords.

#### SMBclient - Connecting to the Share

```
        Sharename       Type      Comment
        ---------       ----      -------
        print$          Disk      Printer Drivers
        home            Disk      INFREIGHT Samba
        dev             Disk      DEVenv
        notes           Disk      CheckIT
        IPC$            IPC       IPC Service (DEVSM)
SMB1 disabled -- no workgroup available
```

