Even though cloud providers secure their infrastructure centrally, this does not mean that companies are free from vulnerabilities. The configurations made by the administrators may nevertheless make the company's cloud resources vulnerable. This often starts with the `S3 buckets` (AWS), `blobs` (Azure), `cloud storage` (GCP), which can be accessed without authentication if configured incorrectly

```
$for i in $(cat subdomainlist);do host $i | grep "has address" | grep inlanefreight.com | cut -d" " -f1,4;done

blog.inlanefreight.com 10.129.24.93
inlanefreight.com 10.129.27.33
matomo.inlanefreight.com 10.129.127.22
www.inlanefreight.com 10.129.127.33
s3-website-us-west-2.amazonaws.com 10.129.95.250
```

Often cloud storage is added to the DNS list when used for administrative purposes by other employees. This step makes it much easier for the employees to reach and manage them. Let us stay with the case that a company has contracted us, and during the IP lookup, we have already seen that one IP address belongs to the `s3-website-us-west-2.amazonaws.com` server.

Third-party providers such as [domain.glass](https://domain.glass) can also tell us a lot about the company's infrastructure. As a positive side effect, we can also see that Cloudflare's security assessment status has been classified as "Safe". This means we have already found a security measure that can be noted for the second layer (gateway).

Another very useful provider is [GrayHatWarfare](https://buckets.grayhatwarfare.com). We can do many different searches, discover AWS, Azure, and GCP cloud storage, and even sort and filter by file format. Therefore, once we have found them through Google, we can also search for them on GrayHatWarefare and passively discover what files are stored on the given cloud storage.