
- Remote Desktop Protocol (`RDP`) -p 3389
- Windows Remote Management (`WinRM`)
- Windows Management Instrumentation (`WMI`)


RDP

For an RDP session to be established, both the network firewall and the firewall on the server must allow connections from the outside. If [Network Address Translation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_address_translation) (`NAT`) is used on the route between client and server, as is often the case with Internet connections, the remote computer needs the public IP address to reach the server. In addition, port forwarding must be set up on the NAT router in the direction of the server.

RDP has handled [Transport Layer Security](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security) (`TLS/SSL`) since Windows Vista, which means that all data, and especially the login process, is protected in the network by its good encryption. However, many Windows systems do not insist on this but still accept inadequate encryption via [RDP Security](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows_protocols/ms-rdpbcgr/8e8b2cca-c1fa-456c-8ecb-a82fc60b2322). Nevertheless, even with this, an attacker is still far from being locked out because the identity-providing certificates are merely self-signed by default. This means that the client cannot distinguish a genuine certificate from a forged one and generates a certificate warning for the user.

The `Remote Desktop` service is installed by default on Windows servers and does not require additional external applications. This service can be activated using the `Server Manager` and comes with the default setting to allow connections to the service only to hosts with [Network level authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_Level_Authentication) (`NLA`).

Footprinting RDP

```
nmap -sV -sC 10.129.201.248 -p3389 --script rdp*
```

In addition, we can use `--packet-trace` to track the individual packages and inspect their contents manually. We can see that the `RDP cookies` (`mstshash=nmap`) used by Nmap to interact with the RDP server can be identified by `threat hunters` and various security services such as [Endpoint Detection and Response](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endpoint_detection_and_response) (`EDR`), and can lock us out as penetration testers on hardened networks.

```
nmap -sV -sC 10.129.201.248 -p3389 --packet-trace --disable-arp-ping -n
```

A Perl script named [rdp-sec-check.pl](https://github.com/CiscoCXSecurity/rdp-sec-check) has also been developed by [Cisco CX Security Labs](https://github.com/CiscoCXSecurity) that can unauthentically identify the security settings of RDP servers based on the handshakes.

RDP Sec check - installation

sudo cpan

```
oib3u@htb[/htb]$ git clone https://github.com/CiscoCXSecurity/rdp-sec-check.git && cd rdp-sec-check
oib3u@htb[/htb]$ ./rdp-sec-check.pl 10.129.201.248
```

Authentication and connection to such RDP servers can be made in several ways. For example, we can connect to RDP servers on Linux using `xfreerdp`, `rdesktop`, or `Remmina` and interact with the GUI of the server accordingly.

Initiate an RDP Session

```
oib3u@htb[/htb]$ xfreerdp /u:cry0l1t3 /p:"P455w0rd!" /v:10.129.201.248
```

WinRM

The Windows Remote Management (`WinRM`) is a simple Windows integrated remote management protocol based on the command line. WinRM uses the Simple Object Access Protocol (`SOAP`) to establish connections to remote hosts and their applications. Therefore, WinRM must be explicitly enabled and configured starting with Windows 10. WinRM relies on `TCP` ports `5985` and `5986` for communication, with the last port `5986 using HTTPS`, as ports 80 and 443 were previously used for this task. However, since port 80 was mainly blocked for security reasons, the newer ports 5985 and 5986 are used today.

Another component that fits WinRM for administration is Windows Remote Shell (`WinRS`), which lets us execute arbitrary commands on the remote system. The program is even included on Windows 7 by default. Thus, with WinRM, it is possible to execute a remote command on another server.

Services like remote sessions using PowerShell and event log merging require WinRM. It is enabled by default starting with the `Windows Server 2012` version, but it must first be configured for older server versions and clients, and the necessary firewall exceptions created.

## Footprinting the Service

As we already know, WinRM uses TCP ports `5985` (`HTTP`) and `5986` (`HTTPS`) by default, which we can scan using Nmap. However, often we will see that only HTTP (`TCP 5985`) is used instead of HTTPS (`TCP 5986`).

nmap WinRM

```
nmap -sV -sC 10.129.201.248 -p5985,5986 --disable-arp-ping -n
```

If we want to find out whether one or more remote servers can be reached via WinRM, we can easily do this with the help of PowerShell. The [Test-WsMan](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.wsman.management/test-wsman?view=powershell-7.2) cmdlet is responsible for this, and the host's name in question is passed to it. In Linux-based environments, we can use the tool called [evil-winrm](https://github.com/Hackplayers/evil-winrm), another penetration testing tool designed to interact with WinRM.


```
evil-winrm -i 10.129.201.248 -u Cry0l1t3 -p P455w0rD!
```

WMI - Windows management instrumentation 

```
/usr/share/doc/python3-impacket/examples/wmiexec.py Cry0l1t3:"P455w0rD!"@10.129.201.248 "hostname"
```



***Again, it is necessary to mention that the knowledge gained from installing these services and playing around with the configurations on our own Windows Server VM for gaining experience and developing the functional principle and the administrator's point of view cannot be replaced by reading manuals. Therefore, we strongly recommend setting up your own Windows Server, experimenting with the settings, and scanning these services repeatedly to see the differences in the results.***